.roo/rules-Salesforce_Agent/custom-object.md, before:

**Salesforce Object Creation**

# Mode Overview

This mode assists the AI model in creating Salesforce objects by generating the necessary XML files in the objects directory. It ensures that object names follow Salesforce conventions. The generated XML is compliant with Salesforce Metadata API standards and ready for deployment.

**Instructions(IMPORTANT!!)**

# Strict Rules for Salesforce Object Creation

## Check Existing Object

- Before creating a new object, check if the object already exists:
    - First, check locally in the objects directory (force-app/main/default/objects/)
    - Also use the <retrieve_sf_metadata> tool with metadata_type "CustomObject" and metadata_name "<ObjectApiName>" to check if the object exists in the Salesforce org
- If the object already exists (either locally or in the org):
    - Inform the user that the object is already present.
    - Ask: "Do you want to create new fields for this object or create a completely new object?"
- If the object does not exist in both locations, continue with the rules below.

## Folder Creation

Always create a folder in the objects directory with the same name as the object.
Example: For object Invoice_Item**c, create folder objects/Invoice_Item**c.

## File Creation

Inside the folder, create the object XML file with this format:
<ObjectApiName>.object-meta.xml
Example: Invoice_Item**c/Invoice_Item**c.object-meta.xml.

## Naming Conventions

- Replace spaces with underscores in object and file names.
    ### objectApiName rules:
    - Only letters, numbers, and underscores allowed.
    - Must start with a letter.
    - Must be unique.
    - Cannot end with an underscore.
    - Cannot contain consecutive underscores.

## Labels and Pluralization

- The label must always be the singular form of the object name.
- The pluralLabel must always be the plural form, unless the word should never be pluralized (e.g., Country, City, Person, Name, Data).
- Examples:
    - Flower → Label: Flower | PluralLabel: Flowers
    - Invoice → Label: Invoice | PluralLabel: Invoices
    - Country → Label: Country | PluralLabel: Country (no pluralization applied)

## Enable Features

- Always set the following to true in the XML definition:
    - enableReports
    - enableActivities
    - enableFeeds
    - enableHistory

## Tab Creation (MANDATORY)

- When creating a custom object you MUST also create a corresponding custom tab. Tab creation is required and cannot be skipped.
- Create the tab file at:

```
force-app/main/default/tabs/<ObjectApiName>.tab-meta.xml
```

- Example minimal Tab XML (replace placeholders):

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<CustomTab xmlns="http://soap.sforce.com/2006/04/metadata">
    <customObject>true</customObject>
    <motif>Custom53: Bell</motif>
</CustomTab>

```

- Ensure the tab file name and the object API name match the custom object. The tab file must be staged and deployed together with the object and any related metadata.

## Dry Run and deployment for objects(Mandatory)

- Before deploying the created objects and tabs into the org do the dry run first using below command
- Do dry run for all objects at once.
  `sf project deploy start --dry-run --source-dir force-app/main/default/objects/<ObjectApiName>`
- If got any errors after dry run solve them.
- After successful dry run then proceed with deloyment process.
- Do deploy all objects at once.
  `sf project deploy start --source-dir force-app/main/default/objects/<ObjectApiNames>`
- Replace <ObjectApiName> with the actual object API name (e.g., Invoice_Item\_\_c).

## Dry Run and deployment for tabs(Mandatory)

- After creating all objects and tabs, automatically deploy it to the default Salesforce org using the Salesforce CLI.
- Run the deployment command after creating all objects and tabs creation
- Do dry run for all tabs at once.
  `sf project deploy start --dry-run --source-dir force-app/main/default/tabs/<ObjectApiName>.tab-meta.xml`
- If got any errors after dry run solve them.
- After successful dry run then proceed with deloyment process.
- Do deploy all tabs at once.
  `sf project deploy start --source-dir force-app/main/default/tabs/<ObjectApiName>.tab-meta.xml`
- Replace <ObjectApiNames> with the all objects that are created comma separated.

## Compliance

- The XML must follow Salesforce Metadata API standards.
- The XML must be deployable via:
    - Salesforce Change Sets
    - VS Code Salesforce Extensions
    - Salesforce CLI (sfdx)

## Session Behavior

- When the session starts:
  -Immediately initialize the workflow.
  -Begin the object creation process without asking what the user wants.

## Complete Example

Scenario: Creating a "Test" Custom Object
When creating a custom object named "Test", follow these steps:

- Step 1: Folder Structure
  Create the following directory structure:
  force-app/main/default/
  ├── objects/
  │ └── Test**c/
  │ └── Test**c.object-meta.xml
  └── tabs/
  └── Test\_\_c.tab-meta.xml

- Step 2: Object XML File
  File: objects/Test**c/Test**c.object-meta.xml
  xml<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
  <CustomObject xmlns="http://soap.sforce.com/2006/04/metadata">
  <deploymentStatus>Deployed</deploymentStatus>
  <enableActivities>true</enableActivities>
  <enableFeeds>true</enableFeeds>
  <enableHistory>true</enableHistory>
  <enableReports>true</enableReports>
  <label>Test</label>
  <pluralLabel>Tests</pluralLabel>
  <nameField>
  <label>Test Name</label>
  <type>Text</type>
  </nameField>
  <sharingModel>ReadWrite</sharingModel>
  </CustomObject>

- Step 3: Tab XML File
  File: tabs/Test\_\_c.tab-meta.xml
  xml<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
  <CustomTab xmlns="http://soap.sforce.com/2006/04/metadata">
  <customObject>true</customObject>
  <motif>Custom53: Bell</motif>
  </CustomTab>

- Step 4: Dry Run and Deployment

For Objects:
bash# Dry run
sf project deploy start --dry-run --source-dir force-app/main/default/objects/Test\_\_c

# Actual deployment (after successful dry run)

sf project deploy start --source-dir force-app/main/default/objects/Test\_\_c

For Tabs:
bash# Dry run
sf project deploy start --dry-run --source-dir force-app/main/default/tabs/Test\_\_c.tab-meta.xml

# Actual deployment (after successful dry run)

sf project deploy start --source-dir force-app/main/default/tabs/Test\_\_c.tab-meta.xml

Commit message:

Refactor Salesforce deployment process to use deploy_sf_metadata tool
- Updated documentation for custom objects, field permissions, profiles, validation rules, Apex classes, and LWC components to replace dry run and deployment commands with a unified deploy_sf_metadata tool.
- Added detailed instructions on the deployment workflow, emphasizing the importance of a single tool call for both validation and deployment.
- Introduced new global settings and tool parameters for deploy_sf_metadata.
- Enhanced UI components to handle deployment results and loading states effectively.
- Updated localization files to include deployment-related messages for better user feedback.

.roo/rules-Salesforce_Agent/custom-object.md, after:

**Salesforce Object Creation**

# Mode Overview

This mode assists the AI model in creating Salesforce objects by generating the necessary XML files in the objects directory. It ensures that object names follow Salesforce conventions. The generated XML is compliant with Salesforce Metadata API standards and ready for deployment.

**Instructions(IMPORTANT!!)**

# Strict Rules for Salesforce Object Creation

## Check Existing Object

- Before creating a new object, check if the object already exists:
    - First, check locally in the objects directory (force-app/main/default/objects/)
    - Also use the <retrieve_sf_metadata> tool with metadata_type "CustomObject" and metadata_name "<ObjectApiName>" to check if the object exists in the Salesforce org
- If the object already exists (either locally or in the org):
    - Inform the user that the object is already present.
    - Ask: "Do you want to create new fields for this object or create a completely new object?"
- If the object does not exist in both locations, continue with the rules below.

## Folder Creation

Always create a folder in the objects directory with the same name as the object.
Example: For object Invoice_Item**c, create folder objects/Invoice_Item**c.

## File Creation

Inside the folder, create the object XML file with this format:
<ObjectApiName>.object-meta.xml
Example: Invoice_Item**c/Invoice_Item**c.object-meta.xml.

## Naming Conventions

- Replace spaces with underscores in object and file names.
    ### objectApiName rules:
    - Only letters, numbers, and underscores allowed.
    - Must start with a letter.
    - Must be unique.
    - Cannot end with an underscore.
    - Cannot contain consecutive underscores.

## Labels and Pluralization

- The label must always be the singular form of the object name.
- The pluralLabel must always be the plural form, unless the word should never be pluralized (e.g., Country, City, Person, Name, Data).
- Examples:
    - Flower → Label: Flower | PluralLabel: Flowers
    - Invoice → Label: Invoice | PluralLabel: Invoices
    - Country → Label: Country | PluralLabel: Country (no pluralization applied)

## Enable Features

- Always set the following to true in the XML definition:
    - enableReports
    - enableActivities
    - enableFeeds
    - enableHistory

## Tab Creation (MANDATORY)

- When creating a custom object you MUST also create a corresponding custom tab. Tab creation is required and cannot be skipped.
- Create the tab file at:

```
force-app/main/default/tabs/<ObjectApiName>.tab-meta.xml
```

- Example minimal Tab XML (replace placeholders):

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<CustomTab xmlns="http://soap.sforce.com/2006/04/metadata">
    <customObject>true</customObject>
    <motif>Custom53: Bell</motif>
</CustomTab>

```

- Ensure the tab file name and the object API name match the custom object. The tab file must be staged and deployed together with the object and any related metadata.

## Deployment (Mandatory)

After creating all custom objects and tabs, use the `deploy_sf_metadata` tool to deploy them to the org. The tool automatically:

- Runs dry-run validation first
- If validation passes, proceeds with deployment automatically
- If validation fails, returns detailed errors without deploying

**Important Notes:**

- **ONE tool call per metadata component does everything** - You don't need separate dry-run and deploy calls
- Deploy objects and tabs as needed using the metadata_type and metadata_name parameters
- The tool handles validation and deployment in a single operation

The AI has centralized deployment instructions and will use the `deploy_sf_metadata` tool automatically when you request deployment.

## Compliance

- The XML must follow Salesforce Metadata API standards.
- The XML must be deployable via:
    - Salesforce Change Sets
    - VS Code Salesforce Extensions
    - Salesforce CLI (sfdx)

## Session Behavior

- When the session starts:
  -Immediately initialize the workflow.
  -Begin the object creation process without asking what the user wants.

## Complete Example

Scenario: Creating a "Test" Custom Object
When creating a custom object named "Test", follow these steps:

- Step 1: Folder Structure
  Create the following directory structure:
  force-app/main/default/
  ├── objects/
  │ └── Test**c/
  │ └── Test**c.object-meta.xml
  └── tabs/
  └── Test\_\_c.tab-meta.xml

- Step 2: Object XML File
  File: objects/Test**c/Test**c.object-meta.xml
  xml<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
  <CustomObject xmlns="http://soap.sforce.com/2006/04/metadata">
  <deploymentStatus>Deployed</deploymentStatus>
  <enableActivities>true</enableActivities>
  <enableFeeds>true</enableFeeds>
  <enableHistory>true</enableHistory>
  <enableReports>true</enableReports>
  <label>Test</label>
  <pluralLabel>Tests</pluralLabel>
  <nameField>
  <label>Test Name</label>
  <type>Text</type>
  </nameField>
  <sharingModel>ReadWrite</sharingModel>
  </CustomObject>

- Step 3: Tab XML File
  File: tabs/Test\_\_c.tab-meta.xml
  xml<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
  <CustomTab xmlns="http://soap.sforce.com/2006/04/metadata">
  <customObject>true</customObject>
  <motif>Custom53: Bell</motif>
  </CustomTab>

- Step 4: Dry Run and Deployment

For Objects:
bash# Dry run
sf project deploy start --dry-run --source-dir force-app/main/default/objects/Test\_\_c

# Actual deployment (after successful dry run)

sf project deploy start --source-dir force-app/main/default/objects/Test\_\_c

For Tabs:
bash# Dry run
sf project deploy start --dry-run --source-dir force-app/main/default/tabs/Test\_\_c.tab-meta.xml

# Actual deployment (after successful dry run)

sf project deploy start --source-dir force-app/main/default/tabs/Test\_\_c.tab-meta.xml
